VirtualBox allows us to run an entire operating system inside another operating 
system.

Advantages of virtual installation
● The size of the installation does not have to be predetermined. It can be a 
dynamically resized virtual hard drive.
● No reboot needed in order to switch between Ubuntu and Windows.
● The virtual machine will use Windows internet connection.
● The virtual machine will set up its own video configuration.
● For troubleshooting purposes, take screenshots of any part of Ubuntu (including 
the boot menu or the login screen).
● It's low commitment. We can uninstall VirtualBox and terminate Ubuntu.

Disadvantages of virtual installation
● In order to get any kind of decent performance, at least 512 MB of RAM is needed, 
because we are running an entire operating system (Ubuntu) inside another entire 
operating system (Windows).
● Even though the low commitment factor can seem like an advantage at first, if we 
later decide we want to switch to Ubuntu and ditch Windows completely, we cannot 
simply delete Windows partition.
● Every time we want to use Ubuntu, we have to wait for two boot times (the time it 
takes to boot Windows, and then the time it takes to boot Ubuntu within Windows).

Installation steps- 
1. Download VirtualBox using the link - https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads
2. Follow these instructions to get an Ubuntu disk image (.iso file).
3. After you launch VirtualBox from the Windows Start menu, click on New to create a 
new virtual machine. When the New Virtual Machine Wizard appears, click Next.
4. Assign title to the machine also specify that the operating system is Linux.
5. VirtualBox will try to guess memory (or RAM) to allocate for the virtual machine. If 
we have 1 GB or less of RAM, proceed as it is with the recommendation. If we have 
over 1 GB,about a quarter RAM or less should be fine. For example, if we have 2 GB of RAM,
512 MB is fine to allocate. If we have 4 GB of RAM, 1 GB is fine to allocate. If we have no idea 
what RAM is or how much of it we have, just go with the default. Click Next.
6. Create new hard disk and then click Next.
7. Click Next again.
8. A dynamically expanding virtual hard drive is best, because it take up only what actually 
is used. But when installing new software in a virtualized Ubuntu, in which the virtual hard 
drive fills up instead of expanding. So it is recommended to Fixed-size storage.
9. Ubuntu's default installation is less than 3 GB
10. Click Create and wait for the virtual hard drive to be created. This is actually a very 
large file that lives inside of Windows installation.
11. Now make the (currently blank) virtual hard drive useful is to add the downloaded 
Ubuntu disk image (the .iso) boot on virtual machine. Click on Settings and 
Storage. Then, under CD/DVD Device, next to Empty,Click the folder icon.
12. Select the Ubuntu .iso that was downloaded earlier.
13. After selection, click OK. Then double-click virtual machine to start it up.
14. A bunch of random warnings/instructions about how to operate the guest operating 
system within VirtualBox.
15. Wait for Ubuntu to boot up.
16. Once it is started up, just follow the regular installation procedure
17. In order to use virtualized installation (instead of continually booting the live 
CD), double-check that the CD/DVD Device entry is Empty again